.\" steaghan.1 -- 
.\" Created: Mon Mar 20 07:13:05 2000 by tek@wiw.org
.\" Revised: Mon Mar 20 07:13:05 2000 (pending)
.\" Copyright 2000 Julian E. C. Squires (tek@wiw.org)
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\" 
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" 
.TH STEAGHAN 1 "20 Mar 2000" "" ""
.SH NAME
\fBsteaghan\fR \- a program for steganographic injection and extraction
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B steaghan
[\fIoptions\fR] [\-\-] <\fImode\fR> <\fIwrapper file\fR> [\fIsecret file\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fImode\fR is one of ``i'' or ``e'', standing for \fBi\fRnject or
\fBe\fRxtract, respectively.
.PP
\fIsecret file\fR may be either a file name, or ``-'' to read from
stdin. If it is not specified, stdin will be assumed.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR <\fIprpg module\fR>
Select a PRPG module [defaults to classic]. While the default is a
``safe bet'', careful selection of a PRPG module can vastly improve
performance and resource consumption.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR <\fIhash module\fR>
Select a hash module [defaults to ripemd160]. The default is recommended.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR <\fIfile module\fR>
Select a file access module [defaults to mmap]. The default is recommended.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR <\fIwrapper module\fR>
Select a wrapper module (appropriate to the type of the wrapper file). This
must be specified, as there is no sane default.
.TP
\fB\-k\fR <\fIkey file\fR>
Select an (optionally encrypted) key file, use \fB\-\fR for stdin, but
note that the key file and the secret file cannot both come from stdin
in one run.
.TP
\fB\-c\fR <\fIcipher module\fR>
Cipher with which to decrypt the key file. [defaults to null] If a cipher
other than null is specified, the user will be prompted to enter a passphrase
on stdin. The default is not safe, but allows pipelining and such.
.TP
\fB\-hi\fR
Hash the key against the ``immobile'' bits of the wrapper. CAVEAT: While this
allows one to use the same key for multiple wrappers, it greatly increases
the ease with which an active attacker can corrupt the message.
.PP
Systems with dlfcn:
Note that modules can and should be specified by their ``short'' name,
e.g. classic for (STEAGHAN_TOP_DIR)/prpg/classic.so, if they reside in
one of the known module directories. Alternately, the full path
(including the .so terminator) can be specified.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR <\fItop directory\fR>
Specifies directory from which to start a search for modules.
.PP
Systems without dlfcn:
Modules are compiled into the binary itself. The following command-line
option now applies:
.TP
\fB\-l\fR
List modules which this binary contains.
.SH "EXAMPLE OF USAGE"
.PP
Injecting data into a JPEG:
.PP
steaghan -w jpeg -k myencryptedkeyfile -c rc5 i mywrapperfile.jpeg mysecretfile -p composite
.PP
Extracting data from a JPEG:
.PP
steaghan -w jpeg -k myencryptedkeyfile -c rc5 e mywrapperfile.jpeg -p
composite mysecretfile
.SH AUTHOR
Julian Squires <tek@wiw.org>.
.SH BUGS
This manual page does not cover all the current bugs, and be assured,
they do exist.
